Reading this piece made me think of an idea that I struggle with quite frequently: trusting the audience. In many performance pieces, a level of trust must be placed on the audience. An artist must trust that their intended impact will be received by the audience if they are to escape the trap of spoon-feeding a piece that could have numerous negative impacts on the experience of the piece. This trusting of the audience, in my previous work, has taken the form of letting a metaphor stand without over-explaining, using whatever language I choose in my pieces and trusting that the audience will make an effort to translate if needed and, most commonly, allowing multiple translations of my work to exist in an audience’s minds and trusting that an essence of the piece will be perceived regardless. In interaction-driven performances like that of the Woggles, a whole new capacity for trusting the audience is required. Interaction-driven performances ask, in a significant way, that we let go of controlling the outcome of the piece. I am curious, now, where the line is drawn between trusting the audience and controlling the message of your piece. Can a coherent pre-meditated message truly be communicated in an interaction-driven piece? Granted, one can shift the weight of the message of the piece away from the piece’s outcome and more into other factors like the aesthetics and build of the piece. However, are these controlled elements enough to communicate a message? If an audience can control a piece, who is to say that even the form will not get lost in the excitement or carelessness of engagement? I am excited to explore this in my work in this class. How can I trust the audience to hear the message in a robot they can tamper with and control? 
